n this paper, we look for to recognize the causes of users tend 
to cyber space in Kohkiloye and Boyer Ahmad Province in 
Iran. Collecting information to form database is done by 
questionnaire. This questionnaire is provided as oral, written 
and also programming of a website which includes an internet 
questionnaire and the users can answer the questions as they 
wish. They entered their used websites, blogs and social 
networks during the day. 
After collecting questionnaires, the wed addresses are 
gathered to get expected results. And finally, their trustfulness 
is checked by analyzing their used web pages. As the results 
were same, for getting better and noiseless response, they will 
put in database


We considered the following parameters as questions: age, 
education, political attitudes, blog topic, and the type of the 
identity in internet, the influence of managers’ inefficiency on 
tendency, the effect of inefficient media on tendency, the 
effects of social and political conditions on tendency and 
finally the effect of poverty in the province on tendency. The 
noisy or too detailed data in database makes us far from to get 
proper and suitable answers of algorithms [8]. We preprocessed 
the data and eliminated some non-relevant data. 
Finally the followings are considered as the main fields which 
include: education, political caprice, topics, local media 
turnover (LMT) and local, political and social space (LPSS). 
The collected data are shown in Table 1. 
In order to get correct answer, we classify bloggers to two 
groups: professional bloggers and seasonal (temporary) 
bloggers. Professional bloggers are those who adopt blog as 
an effective digital media and interested in digital writing in 
continuous time intervals. Seasonal (temporary) bloggers 
aren’t professional and follow blogging in discrete time 
periods. In this study, we review the tendency factors 
considering whether these people are among professional 
bloggers (Pro Bloggers, PB) and then, consider the other 
factors according to it.